README.md, before:

# Botfish

An integration of the UM-D R2ED Humanoid Robot designed to solve the N-Queens problem and place the pieces accordingly
on a chess board. The goal of this project was to research manipulation of the Humanoid and potentially lay the
groundwork for a future group to take our research and make a full-fledged autonomous chess implementation.

### Dependencies

* REVIEW: Requires Python 3.10 on Ubuntu 22, Requires ROS2 Humble as well as Moveit2
* Python dependencies listed in botfish/requirements.txt
* R2ED code also required to run

### Installing

```
git clone https://github.com/jstebner/botfish.git
cd botfish
py 3.10 -m pip install -r requirements
```

### Usage

```
# Create workspace:
$ mkdir ros2_ws
$ mkdir ros2_ws/src

# Clone repo into src folder

# Get ros dependencies using rosdep
$ cd ros2_ws
$ rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src -r -y

# build workspace
$ cd ros2_ws
$ colcon build

# Source workspace
$ . install/setup.bash

# Launch botfish, Note that the R2ED Client must be running before botfish can be ran
$ ros2 launch botfish botfish.launch.py
```

## N-Queens Solver

A8 is always assumed to be the tile furthest from the arm's home position (ie the "queen loader")

| Row   | A  | B  | C  | D  | E  | F  | G  | H  | Q  |
|-------|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|
| **1** | A1 | B1 | C1 | D1 | E1 | F1 | G1 | H1 | QL |
| **2** | A2 | B2 | C2 | D2 | E2 | F2 | G2 | H2 |    |
| **3** | A3 | B3 | C3 | D3 | E3 | F3 | G3 | H3 |    |
| **4** | A4 | B4 | C4 | D4 | E4 | F4 | G4 | H4 |    |
| **5** | A5 | B5 | C5 | D5 | E5 | F5 | G5 | H5 |    |
| **6** | A6 | B6 | C6 | D6 | E6 | F6 | G6 | H6 |    |
| **7** | A7 | B7 | C7 | D7 | E7 | F7 | G7 | H7 |    |
| **8** | A8 | B8 | C8 | D8 | E8 | F8 | G8 | H8 |    |

## Modules Needed to Implement Chess

> Vision

The entire vision component must be written as we were unable to make much headway in that front. Adding a vision
component and gaining distance to the board positions also decreases the need for adjustments when running physical
calibrations (see Known Issues for more)

> Orientation Constraints for Path Planning

A code snippet can be found in ```botfish_manipulation/src/manipulation_node.cpp```

> Manipulation

The queen loader needs to be changed to a position away from the board. When a new move string is passed we must go to
that tile first and grab that piece, then the current implementation (drop off piece in cell, go to position away from
board) can be used. An extra step must be performed for capturing pieces


> (Re)Interfacing the Engine Node with Stockfish

Rather than gaining move strings from the N-Queens node, moves need to be gained from Stockfish

## Known Issues

### Calibration

Due to a lack of a vision component it is impossible to completely calibrate the system within our desired
specifications (moving pieces within 1.25 CM of the center of a tile). While the Schunk arms do generally have good
repeatability it is humanly impossible to find the exact positions to line up all the tiles.

### Grippers and Fingers Die After Emergency Stop

Secure shell into the onboard PC ```ssh humanoid@192.168.131.111``` and use the password.
Use ```sudo systemctl restart humanoid``` to restart the humanoid service. This has the added benefit of rerunning the
hand initialization sequence without needing to completely power cycle the bot. In the event that the initialization
doesn't work a full power cycle is necessary. Use ```sudo systemctl poweroff``` and wait for the onboard PC's light to
fade. Then turn off the power button on the Ridgeback's base

### Left Thumb Doesn't Move

Unfortunately the left thumb aboard R2ED is dead and as a result cannot respond to published messages. Onboard the Intel
Nuc we've disabled the thumb flexion and thumb opposition joints in the corresponding array, positions ```[0,1]```.
Should the thumb come back online the array can be found in ```humanoid/humanoid_control/launch/robot.launch.py```

### Right Thumb Doesn't move

Similarly to the left thumb, the right thumb is disabled to allow the initialization sequence to properly run. Note that
only the right thumb flexion is disabled

### Right Index Finger Mechanical Issues

The motor for the right index finger works properly and is able to move it, but we believe the finger has a busted
spring
and as a result has little resistance to movements and can dangle in place.

### Left Arm Plans to a Low Position and not the Desired One

We encountered this issues a few times while experimenting with the left arm. It only seemed to occur while power on for
the first time after having not been moved for several weeks. Planning back to neutral fixed the issue.

### System Shuts off After Long Sessions

As you may have assumed, when on battery power for too long the system will shut off automatically. This also can occur
if left charging for too long, likely to prevent long term damage to the batteries.

## Authors

* [Jordan S-H](https://github.com/jstebner)
* [Christian Cuevas](https://github.com/cdawgc8)
* [Jordan Krasan](https://github.com/JordanKra)
* [James Elugbemi](https://github.com/James-Elugbemi)
* [William Castle](https://github.com/wicastle)

Commit message:

Formatting and added over voltage issue

README.md, after:

# Botfish

An integration of the UM-D R2ED Humanoid Robot designed to solve the N-Queens problem and place the pieces accordingly
on a chess board. The goal of this project was to research manipulation of the Humanoid and potentially lay the
groundwork for a future group to take our research and make a full-fledged autonomous chess implementation.

### Dependencies

* REVIEW: Requires Python 3.10 on Ubuntu 22, Requires ROS2 Humble as well as Moveit2
* Python dependencies listed in botfish/requirements.txt
* R2ED code also required to run

### Installing

```
git clone https://github.com/jstebner/botfish.git
cd botfish
py 3.10 -m pip install -r requirements
```

### Usage

```
# Create workspace:
$ mkdir ros2_ws
$ mkdir ros2_ws/src

# Clone repo into src folder

# Get ros dependencies using rosdep
$ cd ros2_ws
$ rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src -r -y

# build workspace
$ cd ros2_ws
$ colcon build

# Source workspace
$ . install/setup.bash

# Launch botfish, Note that the R2ED Client must be running before botfish can be ran
$ ros2 launch botfish botfish.launch.py
```

## N-Queens Solver

A8 is always assumed to be the tile furthest from the arm's home position (ie the "queen loader")

| Row   | A  | B  | C  | D  | E  | F  | G  | H  | Q  |
|-------|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|
| **1** | A1 | B1 | C1 | D1 | E1 | F1 | G1 | H1 | QL |
| **2** | A2 | B2 | C2 | D2 | E2 | F2 | G2 | H2 |    |
| **3** | A3 | B3 | C3 | D3 | E3 | F3 | G3 | H3 |    |
| **4** | A4 | B4 | C4 | D4 | E4 | F4 | G4 | H4 |    |
| **5** | A5 | B5 | C5 | D5 | E5 | F5 | G5 | H5 |    |
| **6** | A6 | B6 | C6 | D6 | E6 | F6 | G6 | H6 |    |
| **7** | A7 | B7 | C7 | D7 | E7 | F7 | G7 | H7 |    |
| **8** | A8 | B8 | C8 | D8 | E8 | F8 | G8 | H8 |    |

## Modules Needed to Implement Chess

> Vision

The entire vision component must be written as we were unable to make much headway in that front. Adding a vision
component and gaining distance to the board positions also decreases the need for adjustments when running physical
calibrations (see Known Issues for more)

> Orientation Constraints for Path Planning

A code snippet can be found in ```botfish_manipulation/src/manipulation_node.cpp```

> Manipulation

The queen loader needs to be changed to a position away from the board.
When a new move string is passed, we must go to
that tile first and grab that piece; then the current implementation (drop off a piece in cell, go to position away from
board) can be used.
An extra step must be performed for capturing pieces


> (Re)Interfacing the Engine Node with Stockfish

Rather than gaining move strings from the N-Queens node, moves need to be gained from Stockfish

## Known Issues

### Calibration

Due to a lack of a vision component, it is impossible to completely calibrate the system within our desired
specifications (moving pieces within 1.25 CM of the center of a tile). While the Schunk arms do generally have good
repeatability, it is humanly impossible to find the exact positions to line up all the tiles.

### Grippers and Fingers Die After Emergency Stop

Secure shell into the onboard PC ```ssh humanoid@192.168.131.111``` and use the password.
Use ```sudo systemctl restart humanoid``` to restart the humanoid service. This has the added benefit of rerunning the
hand initialization sequence without needing to completely power cycle the bot. In the event that the initialization
doesn't work, a full power cycle is necessary. Use ```sudo systemctl poweroff``` and wait for the onboard PC's light to
fade. Then turn off the power button on the Ridgeback's base

### Left Thumb Doesn't Move

Unfortunately, the left thumb aboard R2ED is dead and as a result cannot respond to published messages.
Onboard the Intel
Nuc we've disabled the thumb flexion and thumb opposition joints in the corresponding array, positions ```[0,1]```.
Should the thumb come back online the array can be found in ```humanoid/humanoid_control/launch/robot.launch.py```

### Right Thumb Doesn't move

Similarly to the left thumb, the right thumb is disabled to allow the initialization sequence to properly run. Note that
only the right thumb flexion is disabled

### Right Index Finger Mechanical Issues

The motor for the right index finger works properly and is able to move it, but we believe the finger has a busted
spring
and as a result has little resistance to movements and can dangle in place.

### Left Arm Plans to a Low Position and not the Desired One

We encountered this issue a few times while experimenting with the left arm.
It only seemed to occur while power on for
the first time after having not been moved for several weeks.
Planning back to neutral fixed the issue.

### System Shuts off After Long Sessions

As you may have assumed, when on battery power for too long, the system will shut off automatically.
This also can occur
if left charging for too long, likely to prevent long term damage to the batteries.

### Arm Over Voltage

It's important to note that the arms have a nominal working voltage of 24v with a minimum voltage of 22.8 and a maximum
voltage of 25.2
if the arms receive voltage too far above this level which can be monitored using the voltage monitor on the bot, the
arms will fail to boot with can be determined by checking the ready lights on the base of the arms.
If the logic and
motor ready lights are out, then the arm failed to boot.
To fix this, we put the bot on battery power, and that brought the
voltage down to a reasonable level, but in the future a more permanent voltage regulation solution should be explored

## Authors

* [Jordan S-H](https://github.com/jstebner)
* [Christian Cuevas](https://github.com/cdawgc8)
* [Jordan Krasan](https://github.com/JordanKra)
* [James Elugbemi](https://github.com/James-Elugbemi)
* [William Castle](https://github.com/wicastle)
